---
 title: "A black-hole mass measurement from molecular gas kinematics in NGC4526"
 excerpt: "Timothy A. Davis, et al. (2013), Natur, 494, 328"
 categories:
  - News
  - Paper
 tags:
  - News
  - Paper
 author:
  name: Timothy A. Davis, et al.
---

<b>Abstract</b><br>
The masses of the supermassive black holes found in galaxy bulges are correlated with a multitude of galaxy properties, leading to suggestions that galaxies and black holes may evolve together. The number of reliably measured black-hole masses is small, and the number of methods for measuring them is limited, holding back attempts to understand this co-evolution. Directly measuring black-hole masses is currently possible with stellar kinematics (in early-type galaxies), ionized-gas kinematics (in some spiral and early-type galaxies) and in rare objects that have central maser emission. Here we report that by modelling the effect of a black hole on the kinematics of molecular gas it is possible to fit interferometric observations of CO emission and thereby accurately estimate black-hole masses. We study the dynamics of the gas in the early-type galaxy NGC 4526, and obtain a best fit that requires the presence of a central dark object of × 10<SUP>8</SUP> solar masses (3σ confidence limit). With the next-generation millimetre-wavelength interferometers these observations could be reproduced in galaxies out to 75 megaparsecs in less than 5 hours of observing time. The use of molecular gas as a kinematic tracer should thus allow one to estimate black-hole masses in hundreds of galaxies in the local Universe, many more than are accessible with current techniques.<br>
<br>
<b>A black-hole mass measurement from molecular gas kinematics in NGC4526</b><br>
Nature, 2013, 494, 328.<br>
<i>Davis, T. A., Bureau, M., Cappellari, M., Sarzi, M., & Blitz, L.</i><br>
<a href="https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013Natur.494..328D">(ADS)</a> / <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7184">(arXiv)</a>

<a href="#" onclick="history.go(-1)">(Go Back)</a>