---
 title: "WISDOM project - V. Resolving molecular gas in Keplerian rotation around the supermassive black hole in NGC 0383"
 excerpt: "Eve V. North, et al. (2019), MNRAS, 490, 319"
 categories:
  - News
  - Paper
 tags:
  - News
  - Paper
 author:
  name: Eve V. North, et al.
---

<b>Abstract</b><br>
As part of the mm-Wave Interferometric Survey of Dark Object Masses (WISDOM), we present a measurement of the mass of the supermassive black hole (SMBH) in the nearby early-type galaxy NGC 0383 (radio source 3C 031). This measurement is based on Atacama Large Millimeter/sub-millimeter Array (ALMA) cycle 4 and 5 observations of the <SUP>12</SUP>CO(2-1) emission line with a spatial resolution of 58 × 32 pc<SUP>2</SUP> (0.18 arcsec × 0.1 arcsec). This resolution, combined with a channel width of 10 km s<SUP>-1</SUP>, allows us to well resolve the radius of the black hole sphere of influence (measured as R<SUB>SOI</SUB> = 316 pc = 0.98 arcsec), where we detect a clear Keplerian increase of the rotation velocities. NGC 0383 has a kinematically relaxed, smooth nuclear molecular gas disc with weak ring/spiral features. We forward model the ALMA data cube with the KINEMATIC MOLECULAR SIMULATION (KinMS) tool and a Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo method to measure an SMBH mass of (4.2 ± 0.7) × 10<SUP>9</SUP> M<SUB>⊙</SUB>, a F160W-band stellar mass-to-light ratio that varies from 2.8 ± 0.6 M<SUB>⊙</SUB>/L_{⊙ , F160W} in the centre to 2.4 ± 0.3 M<SUB>⊙</SUB>/L_{⊙ , F160W} at the outer edge of the disc and a molecular gas velocity dispersion of 8.3 ± 2.1 km s<SUP>-1</SUP>(all 3σ uncertainties). We also detect unresolved continuum emission across the full bandwidth, consistent with synchrotron emission from an active galactic nucleus. This work demonstrates that low-J CO emission can resolve gas very close to the SMBH (≈ 140 000 Schwarzschild radii) and hence that the molecular gas method is highly complimentary to megamaser observations, as it can probe the same emitting material.<br>
<br>
<b>WISDOM project - V. Resolving molecular gas in Keplerian rotation around the supermassive black hole in NGC 0383</b><br>
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 2019, 490, 319.<br>
<i>North, E. V., Davis, T. A., Bureau, M., Cappellari, M., Iguchi, S., Liu, L., Onishi, K., Sarzi, M., Smith, M. D., & Williams, T. G.</i><br>
<a href="https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019MNRAS.490..319N">(ADS)</a> / <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.05884">(arXiv)</a>

<a href="#" onclick="history.go(-1)">(Go Back)</a>
