---
 title: "WISDOM project - XIV. SMBH mass in the early-type galaxies NGC 0612, NGC 1574, and NGC 4261 from CO dynamical modelling"
 excerpt: "Ilaria Ruffa, et al. (2023), MNRAS, 522, 4, 6170-6195"
 categories:
  - News
  - Paper
 tags:
  - News
  - Paper
 author:
  name: Ilaria Ruffa, et al.
---

<b>Abstract</b><br>
We present a CO dynamical estimate of the mass of the supermassive black hole (SMBH) in three nearby early-type galaxies: NGC 0612, NGC 1574, and NGC 4261. Our analysis is based on Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) Cycle 3-6 observations of the 12CO(2-1) emission line with spatial resolutions of 14-58 pc (0.01″-0.26″). We detect disc-like CO distributions on scales from ≲ 200 pc (NGC 1574 and NGC 4261) to ≈10 kpc (NGC 0612). In NGC 0612 and NGC 1574 the bulk of the gas is regularly rotating. The data also provide evidence for the presence of a massive dark object at the centre of NGC 1574, allowing us to obtain the first measure of its mass, MBH = (1.0 ± 0.2) × 108 M⊙ (1σ uncertainty). In NGC 4261, the CO kinematics is clearly dominated by the SMBH gravitational influence, allowing us to determine an accurate black hole mass of (1.62 ± 0.04) × 109 M⊙ (1σ uncertainty). This is fully consistent with a previous CO dynamical estimate obtained using a different modelling technique. Signs of non-circular gas motions (likely outflow) are also identified in the inner regions of NGC 4261. In NGC 0612, we are only able to obtain a (conservative) upper limit of MBH ≲ 3.2 × 109 M⊙. This has likely to be ascribed to the presence of a central CO hole (with a radius much larger than that of the SMBH sphere of influence), combined with the inability of obtaining a robust prediction for the CO velocity curve. The three SMBH mass estimates are overall in agreement with predictions from the MBH - σ* relation.
<br>
<br>
<b>WISDOM project - XIV. SMBH mass in the early-type galaxies NGC 0612, NGC 1574, and NGC 4261 from CO dynamical modelling</b><br>
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 522, 4, 6170-6195<br>
<i>Ruffa, Ilaria; Davis, Timothy A.; Cappellari, Michele; Bureau, Martin ; Elford, Jacob; Iguchi, Satoru; Lelli, Federico; Liang, Fu-Heng ; Liu, Lijie; Lu, Anan; Sarzi, Marc ; Williams, Thomas G.</i><br>
<a href="https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023MNRAS.522.6170R">(ADS)</a> / <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.06117">(arXiv)</a>

<a href="#" onclick="history.go(-1)">(Go Back)</a>

